# Reading Journal 301-02

## jQuery, Events, and The DOM

When using jQuery, it is crucial that you understand vanilla JavaScript first.  This is because jQuery is essentially a pre-built library of methods that you can use to access, modify, and navigate the DOM.  You write it into your page like any other JavaScript file, using the script element in HTML.  After writing in the jQuery script, you then also have to write in the file that will use jQuery selectors and methods to modify your web site, as per usual.  It is important to include the jQuery version in the file path for your script element, but jQuery is supported by all browsers.  At the end of the day, however, it is there to make writing your script much quicker and efficient, basically acting as shorthand for what you need to accomplish.  

It is much more than just a library of methods though.  It is a faster, more efficient way to create interactivity within your web page.  For example, when accessing and changing a node in the DOM tree you would have to write \(insert arbitrary number here\) lines of code just to have access to one element, and then you would have to write the rest of the code to change it according to your wants and needs.  However, jQuery allows you to access and modify those elements all within a few short and simple lines.

By using jQuery, you can also add event listeners and handlers into your script in a much more efficient way.  It still functions and processes the same as vanilla JavaScript, but allows you an easier way to do so.  It is also much easier than using the querySelector method when you need to access a very particular part of the page.  You can also use it to add animations and effects, as well as restyle your CSS accordingly, but it is still best practice to have your JavaScript add predefined CSS code blocks based on the interactivity.  An example of this would be defining what you want your hover class to do in your CSS, but then using your JavaScript to add that hover class to your desired elements based on user input.  The practicality is there; how you use it to achieve your goals is only limited by what you want to accomplish.
