# Reading Journal 301-06

## Node, Express, and API's

Node.js, or node if you will, is a javascript runtime environment with non-blocking I\O capabilities in the server's event loop.  It allows you to handle the process of requesting and returning data and can process multiple requests simultaneously.  This is called the event stack, where as new requests get made, these requests build up in the event stack and can run asynchronously.  Then, as these events finish, they go back through the callback queue to return the requested information.  Node is entirely event driven in this way because its entire purpose is to respond to request events and return that information respectively.  Within this server you do also need to consider errors and having fall backs to respond with when something doesn't quite work how it's supposed to.  An easy example of this would be your typical "404: reference not found" error that we see all of the time.

Now, where node allows you to build a server for your application to run in, it is still fairly bare bones, wherein that it still leaves it up to you to build out your application pretty much from the ground up.  This is where express comes in.  It is essentially a framework that allows you to build out a boilerplate for your application and work on customizing it to suit your needs from there.  There are many other frameworks out there, but express has built a reputation at the top of that list of recommended frameworks.  The two combined give you the capability to put together a very strong foundation for whatever project you are working on.

Now, onto the topic of API's, or application programming interfaces.  API's make the internet go round, in the sense that they handle all of the processing that happens between requesting and returning data.  You give the server some information, the API goes out and does all of the background processing, and then comes back with your requested information to do with what you will.  Imagine the touch screen on your phone.  An API is what allows your phone to know what information was requested when you hit a button, and so it goes and retrieves that information, then brings it back to your phone's computer to process and return whatever it is you told it to get for you.  Often times you do need to feed an API specific information before it knows what to do, but even so, without them the internet would be nowhere near as capable as it is.
