# Reading Journal 301-14

## Database Normalization

In large, database normalization is the idea that within any given table there should only be directly relative data.  That is, to say, prevent inefficient use of storage on redundant data and to avoid data modification anomolies. The idea is that the columns should only be dependant on the primary key, and that the sequential columns should not have redundant or transitive data.  Now, DB tables can be interlinked through primary and foreign keys that tie them accordingly, but at the end of the day, each table is responsible for its own tightly structured set of data. And so there are three phases that your database should go through to verify the DB normalization process.

The first test a DB table needs to pass for the sake of normalization, is that it should not contain atomic values, nor have multiple columns with the same data type.  In any given row, if multiple values exist in a single row, that breaks the rule of atomic values; meaning they must be able to be divided.  Similarly, if there are multiple rows that all contain the same data, they should be sent off into their own table and linked to your first table through a relative key.

The next step towards normalization is that you have passed the first form of normalization and that all directly relative data exists in its own table, and then that all of the columns are dependant on the primary key.  Moreso, that they are directly related to that table's primary key.  Imagine that you wouldn't want customer data in a table with your employee keys as the primary key.  Instead you can link them accordingly using an intersection table that holds a column for each relative key and then you can grab data from any table that you can reach from that intersection.

Thirdly, after having met the standards of the first and second forms, you will check to make sure that there is no transitive data.  This meaning that if a column in the table is only related to the primary key *through* another column then it is not directly related to the key.  Now, bear in mind that it is possible to take data normalization too far, but the main point at the end of day is that not only will you save space in the DB, but you will save yourself a few headaches if you follow some simple criteria for organizing your DB.  It will be easier to access information, and easier to manipulate data, plus you will have a more defined idea of where all of the data exists.
