# Reading Journal 301-15

## Diversity and Inclusion

In the tech industry, the world is moving forward, but that hasn't always been the case.  Through the decades of computer science and development, the industry has catered directly to men, and white men at that.  Now, as the industry is computers, and the developers are geeks by nature, it would be safe to venture a guess that most of them were single too.  However, the fact remains that diversity has largely not been prevalent in the industry, for women, or groups of ethnicity. It is great to see that 4 out of 10 people in my class are women, and one of them is from Algeria!  This means that diversity is working its way back into the industry.

Companies are beginning to value the facts that are returned from studies through the decades.  The gaming industry kicked off this downward spiral away from diversity in the mid '80s when the market for games became diluted with cheap and paltry games.  After this there were only the die hards left in the computer industry, those men and boys that the gaming industry marketed to.  Since then, it has been a very slow climb back to a reasonable ratio of diversity in the technology related work force.

As it is, studies show that companies that employ more diverse work forces are noticing that new and innovative ideas are coming out of this more even ratio of work force.  By having employees of color, they are then finding new ways to include these communities in the next steps that we are taking, as a people into the future.  As the human race, we are growing beyond anything we could have imagined, rather, we are growing into exactly what we had imagined in all of those ScyFy films and novels years ago.  The best step forward is inclusion...everybody deserves a place in the future, and that is why we are here.
