# Reading Journal 12

## Components\Partials

EJS, or embedded javascript, is a way for you to generate HTML markup from your server side app in order to write javescript into the HTML that will allow you to directly render data from your database, APIs, or even from user input onto the web page itself.  Firstly, along with all of your other dependencies, you will npm install ejs into the directory and write the require into your server file.  Then, given you have data, you can begin to render that data to your web page dynamically.  So, on that note, let's talk about layouts and partials.  Layouts are not native to ejs so require an extra scaffolding step to implement into your ejs files, but the big difference is having to add one extra word into your partials which are native to ejs; this word being 'include'.

Now, when generating your web app for the user, there will be a lot of static HTML and information that will be universal across all of the pages associated with your site.  Situations where you will have static HTML include heads, headers, nav bars, and footers.  So inside of your views folder, you will then create a partials folder and create an ejs file for each partial you have.  For now, let's say we have a nav and a footer.  You will write out the HTML markup for these aspects of the page, just plain HTML here.  With that done, you then go to each individual ejs file that defines each page of your user side app.  All it takes after this is one line per page: <%\- include\('PARTIAL_FILE_PATH'\) %\> and that partial will generate to the page exactly where you tell it to.

Below is a list of ejs markup used to write your javascript into the the ejs file so as to; say generate lists using for loops based on database tables, or if\else statements to generate one output or another based on user interactivity.

- <% 'Scriptlet' tag, for control-flow, no output \(used to wrap your JS so it will not render\)
- <%_ 'Whitespace Slurping' Scriptlet tag, strips all whitespace before it
- <%= Outputs the value into the template (escaped)
- <%- Outputs the unescaped value into the template \(for example for your partials!\)
- <%# **Comment** tag, no execution, no output
- <%% Outputs a literal '<%'
- %%> Outputs a literal '%>'\(in case you want to include your ejs markup on a partial or include\)
- %> Plain ending tag
- -%> Trim-mode ('newline slurp') tag, trims following newline
- _%> 'Whitespace Slurping' ending tag, removes all whitespace after it
