# Reading Journal 401-08

## Collections

A collection, in concept, is very similar to an array, only in C# an array has a defined length.  With collections you are able to create and store objects, only much more flexible and with a dynamic size; meaning that you can add to, retrieve, remove, and even update the object if you specify it with a setter.  Also, unlike arrays, you are able to assign key\value pairs for your objects so that you can easily access any given object in your collection simply by accessing its key.  Very similar to all of the classes and reference type objects that we have been working with thus far, you create a collection class that can then be declared, or instantiated, meaning you create an instance of that object.  Another very useful attribute of collections is type safety, allowing you to declare a data type and only store objects of that data type in your collection.

Now, there are a few different types of collections, and many different interfaces and ways to work with and mold your collections into exactly what you need out of them; an easy access block of object storage for use in a plethora of ways.  The generic collection comes built into the C# System \(System.Collection.Generic\) which is what allows you to define type safety.  This is where you keep seeing \<\T\> scattered everywhere throughout demo code and resources you find in any auxiliary research you may have done.  You create the reference of the list with this "T" and then define that type specifically when you instantiate the collection class to access the objects and their values.  Next most common is a concurrent collection which allows for thread safety, meaning that you can access the objects stored in the list across multiple threads.  There are also queues \(a FIFO collection\), sorted lists \(utilizing the IComparer interface\), stack collections \(LIFO collections\), and a few other more abstract classes that hold their own unique use cases.  Don't forget about custom collections either! While very rarely used, they do give you a whole new layer of control over what you can do with a collection and how.

That is the whole point of creating collections, to give yourself as the programmer significantly more control over the data you are working with and how to utilize them in your code base.  The list of interfaces that are able to be used with collections is quite substantial, but the most common would be IEnumerable and the different generic and non-generic versions of it.  This allows you to define an underlying integral numeric type, giving you, again, that much more control over what you can do with a collection.  You can define keys and values, as stated above, behaviors, and even assign sub properties allowing you to define your objects even more vividly.  And even better yet, accessing the objects in your collection is made extremely easy through common and well known iterators like the for each loop!  The possibilities are boundless, well until you run out of memory that is, and, here's the kicker, you can even access your collections using LINQ; a way to utilize SQL query lines to retrieve, update, and so on within your API, or collection if you will. 