# Reading Journal 401-09

## LINQ

LINQ is language-integrated query, meaning that directly in C# you can make data queries similar to that of SQL, XML, and other explicit query languages.  Before LINQ you would have to learn a new language for each type of data source, and ,furthermore there was no explicit type checking or intellisense built in for the language.  Now with LINQ you can define type safety, and standard query operators \(SQO\) run at compile time.  This allows you to access strongly typed data structures efficiently and with a new level of control over your desired outcome.

The basic break down of structuring a data query is as follows; obtain, create, and execute.  Firstly, you need to have a data structre to access, be it a simple array or a compact JSON file full of millions of bytes of data.  Next, you create your query using standard query syntax; "SELECT data FROM data source WHERE condition is met" is the general idea.  However, what you are able to do and how you can implement it into your code is ridiculously diverse.  You can access and sort, you can group data by certain parameters, and even use the "let" keyword to define expressions within your query!  Finally, you execute.  In order to do this you need an iterator of some sort in order to access all of the data properly and return your desired results.

It is worth noting here that best practice to use queries when possible and methods only when necessary.  The reason for this is accessiblity and efficiency.  It also allows for cleaner and more effective code to be written, which makes any programmer's life easier.  At the end of the day, there's the long, arduous path to accessing and working with your data, and then there's LINQ. Save yourself the effort, and save your program too!
