# Reading Journal 401-16

## Dependency Injection

Dependency injection \(DI\) is a principle within C# that allows us to define a software design pattern in order to develop loosely developed code within a strongly typed language.  The principle, or DIP, allows a programmer to reduce hard-coded inheritance among classes by injecting the necessary dependencies at run time.

There are three types of DI that give us control over constructor, property, and method injection; meaning that we can strictly define what any given class needs in order to operate as intended.  This means that you can create classes and interfaces that allow you to strictly inject only what is necessary into the different cogs within your program.  You are now able to create properties and methods that can be inherited dynamically, and strictly according to your chosen discretion.

An important factor to point out, in relation to DI, is Inversion of Control \(IoC\).  When utilizing DI, you are creating a pattern that is a specific implementation of IoC; meaning that objects do not create other objects in reliance.  Instead, they are created from an outside source, and then utilized within the program according to the specified behaviors and needs.

Overall, DI is the concept behind creating layers within your application that allow you to utilize a plethora of behaviors throughout your program without sacrificing efficiency.  With this principle, you are able to define the behaviors and properties of your application dynamically and through a deep seeded control over what you want your application to accomplish.