# Reading Journal 401-15

## Trees

Trees, another new data structure; these are the steps of an easy to climb tree.  Its mission, to store, sort, and access data in an efficient and logical way.  Behind the scenes a tree will use a stack or a queue in order to process traversal correctly, but the tree itself is a little more structured.  Starting at the root node \(first parent\) that node can have children, similar to inheritance in a domain model.  If it is a binary tree than each parent node is only allowed two children.  If not binary, any one parent node can have many children; how and where to use each is dealer's choice.  Once the traversal reaches a node that doesn't have any children, this node is called a leaf; the end of the branch on the tree.

Most commonly, traversal for trees uses recursion.  There are two different approaches to traversal, each of which has unique methods for different types of traversal.  Firstly, you decide whether you are doing a depth traversal or a breadth traversal.  In depth first you base your recursion on height, and each type of traversal here will result in a different output.  These types are pre-order, in-order, and post-order.  The algorithm for this is relatively simple and as follows:

- Starting at the root look the its left first;
- If that is not null move to that left child, add root to call stack and call recursion;
- Check for a child node to the left of this "temporary root";
- If nothing is to the left, check the right;
- If you find something to the right, add temp root to call stack, call recursion, and move to that child;
- Now you have reached a leaf, so pull the temporary head off the call stack; 
- You are done with the parent of that leaf now, remove from stack and move back to original root;
- Repeat recursion for the right side of the original root;
- When all leaves have been reached accordingly and all nodes have been returned in the designated order, recursion finishes;

There's definitely a lot happening there, but imagine that you are checking one branch after another until you reach a dead end.  Once a dead end is reached, you back track and check the other side; until finally you have found every dead end and break out of the recursion because there is nothing left to look for; like checking every single side room when running a dungeon, only in a certain order!

In-order and post-order work almost in the same exact way; the only real difference being *when* you are looking at the root node.  Ultimately it's either a top to bottom, or left to right approach with tree traversal.  That's where breadth traversal comes in, as you use a queue to enqueue and dequeue accordingly based on whether a node has children to the left and right of it.  If a node has children it is dequeued a the new root and recursion happens until no children are found.  Then the call stack back tracks until every branch has been exhausted and there are no more children to find.  And so trees offer us a way to boldly store strongly typed data to be both easily stored and accessed.