# Reading Journal 401-19

## Calling An API

Controllers and routes, gets, posts, puts, models and views, the list goes on, but these things define all of the behind the scenes operations of any web app on many levels.  For our intents and purposes right now, there are three main layers to focus on, and what it takes to manage, maintain, and test those layers.  These layers are dense and intricate, fickle in ways, but holding so much responsibility in how our application functions.  

### The Layers

Firstly, we have the database, which is a library of data that defines what the server needs to perform its duties.  Then we have the API which acts as a middle man through its own set of controllers and routes to interact with the database directly on one side, and then interact with the request and response independently on the other side.  Finally, we have the UI itself, which is our end game in any app, what experience are we giving the user.  This UI also has a set of controllers and routes that travel to the API with the user request, climbing on up the stack and back down the other side with a view model worthy of display.

### Swagger

That is why it is so important to mercilessly manage and maintain your CRUD operations and diligently test them.  Swagger is a web application itself that can tie into an MVC web app and provide a variety of services; a place to test drive and use your routes to see the outcome and functionality, the ability to process and understand the operations of your app as a whole, and a built in intellisense that helps to scaffold and create clean and proper documentation.  The documentation is crucial to your API because without good docs, no one will understand how to use it, and ultimately won't.  

### Testing

Beyond management and documentation we have unit tests and integrated tests.  Integration testing is the process of combining and testing across multiple modules in an app, or projects in a .NET MVC app \(in our case the modules would be our API project, and our UI project, front end and back end\).  For now, we will be utilizing unit tests though, because they allow us to test a single controller and its possible CRUD operations directly to verify that each controller and route performs as expected and returns expected values accordingly.  This is crucial as the call stack can get fairly large when chaining method calls through a so many layers of classes and interfaces to fulfill a full request/response cycle.