# Reading Journal 401-11

## Model View Controller

The model view controller, or MVC, is a structural set up process and procedure that allows you to organize an effective and interdependent web application.  Supporting separation of concerns and single purpose principality, through splitting UI, back-end functionality, and interactivity into separate modules that are definitively reliant on each other.  The model represents the state of the application and holds your business logic, or the app's back-end logic that works with databases, API's, and other strongly typed data structures.  The views define the presentation of the user interface content after the data has been handled by the back-end.  Finally, the controller is where the magic happens and acts as the middle man between the view and model.  The controller is how you handle user interaction, take the user input and translate it to your model so that the model can work with the user queries and requests, then, after the back end has finished its job, selects the view to present the data to the user through.

This approach to writing a web application is very similar to using npm and middleware in javascript in the sense of route creation and handling, HTML templating \(referred to as injection in C#\), and responsive user experience and back end efficiency.  However, effectively speaking, the MVC approach allows for creation of code that is easy to read, test, and debug.  It offers independence of the user interface and business logic, as it is referred to, and allows the programmer to implement functionality in both a user friendly and programmer friendly environment.  Coming with a whole slew of built in meta data to define functionality such as authorization or required input, intellisense for HTML injection, and general devops tools that making the applications experience, in use case and behind the scenes, much more manageable and maintainable.  There's not much more to say on what MVC is; the next step is to put it into practice, follow the Microsoft Docs tutorial to learn how to structure an MVC out and begin the road of .NET based web applications!