# Reading Journal 401-14

## Intro to Building API's

An API is an application programming interface that offers HTTP services for logic and data that can be used within programs and across the internet.  In order to create one, you will first need to build out a .NET MVC web app that allows you to use a data to create, read, update, delete, and, ultimately, store data.  The principles behind creating a functional API\database connection are the CRUD principles behind any HTTP request, which translate into the common application verbs of get, post, put, and delete.

There are many different tools and dependencies within .NET that do a lot of the behind the scenes magic for you, but it is up to you to define your controllers, how they function based on different attributes and query parameters, and what they actually do as a server response to requests.  The routes that you define, with different declared actions, state what happens based on different client interactions.  Post routes are commonly funneled through form submissions to handle the user request and then redirect and generate the requested data accordingly.

These different routes and their respected action types come with a whole slew of attributes that can define how they function, how to handle errors and edge cases, and even constrain what a query string needs to be in order to work correctly.  These attributes are essentially metadata within the application; metadata being pseudo code that is annotated by square brackets directly above the property or method that you are describing and helps define what your chosen expectations are for the server.  You can also add query string templates within your route handlers to define if a query is optional, to return default if not specified, and even constrain using data types\regex and so on.

The other key aspect of any API is a database to feed from.  Again, .NET does a lot of the SQL magic for you behind the scenes, but you still have to define your data base entities and relationships in order to handle requested data and produce the desired result based on the action that was called.  By building models for each table in your data base, defining their relationships and schemas, and then seeding your data to be stored until called upon, you can easily create a data base for any information you can conceive!  This was all just about setup and describing how your server, API, and database all work together.  Now the real fun begins, let's create persistent data across the web!