# Reading Journal 401-10

## Stacks and Queues

Stacks and queues are a data structure very similar in nature.  They store sets of values that can later be accessed accordingly.  There are a few key differences between them though; mainly that stacks have a first-in-last-out\last-in-first-out rule while queues are FIFO\LILO.  Working with them and accessing the data accordingly is almost identical though.  It is simply how they operate that is different.

Now, even as a beginner programmer, you have probably heard of the call stack; or the order of operations for methods and functions that get called one after the other.  If you are following the single purpose principality, you will have a method that relies on another method before it can finish.  So the first method is at the bottom of the stack, and the second method finishes its operations first, then the stack goes back to the first and finishes that operation.  This is exactly how stacks work as a data structure.

Adversely, queues are more like an assembly line.  The first item goes into the queue, and when you add a new item to the queue it falls into line behind the items that were already there.  Then, when you are ready to access the data again, you will grab the first item that went in and take it off the queue, then making the item behind it the new front of the line.

That is how the function in essence, but actually accessing the data is nearly identical for both types of data structure.  The only real difference for accessing data is the correlating key words.  Stacks come with; push, pop, peek, and is-empty while queues come with enqueue, dequeue, peek, and is-empty.  Push and enqueue are used to add items to the stack or queue respectively, while pop and dequeue are used to remove an item from either respectively.  Peek, for both, allows you to simply see\capture the value of the top\first item accordingly and is-empty \(no dash when writing the code\) is used to verify if there are any values in the data structure or not.

It is important to point out that exceptions can easily occur when working with these data structures as the process of accessing the data involves redefining the top or first value to be the *next* value in the stack or queue.  This is relatively simple to handle however, simply by checking if the next value is null or not; or you can use a try catch block but these are not the most efficient way to handle that.  At the end of the day you have an ordered list of values that allows you to store, access, and remove data accordingly.