# Reading Journal 401-18

## Views and Tag Helpers

Largely speaking, views in a .NET, MVC web app are quite similar to views in a node.js express server.  The concept is to allow the server to have direct injection of data into what the user sees; after jumping through a few hoops of course.  But, even so, they give us control over what the user sees, and how they see it.  Razor views within a .NET web app also come with the built in concept of layouts and partials.

These two sets of mark-up files allow us to define common aesthetic features of an app one time and inject them into our views accordingly.  Layouts typically define the structure of your page that you will maintain across the app; headers, footers, and overall wire frame *layout*. Partials do the same exact thing, only for key aspects of the app that will be universal, or broadly used across the app; nav bar features or front end JS for example.  The point is, not only to allow for reduction of redundant code, but to allow for more fluid control over what and how the user sees what you want them too when they traverse your app.

This leads us into tag helpers, which are a built in aspect of the .NET framework that give a more defined relationship between the back end and front end.  To quote the Microsoft docs themselves:

 > [A way to make you more productive and able to produce more robust, reliable, and maintainable code using information only available on the server](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/mvc/views/tag-helpers/intro?view=aspnetcore-2.1)

Tag helpers give us more control over the relationship between the server side and client side code.  They also give the server side some control in creating and rendering HTML elements inside your razor files.  What sticks out to me in the quote above is, "...robust, reliable, and maintainable code...".  How much can you accomplish with what you have?  And how can you accomplish that more efficiently?