# Reading Journal 401-01

## Exception Handling

When writing code, there are always going to be unexpected outcomes of what you write.  There are definitive *exceptions* that you can anticipate in your code and respond to preemptively.  A few examples of these exceptions include; ArgumentException, ArgumentOutOfRangeException, InvalidOperationException, and NotSupportedException.  This process is called a try and catch syntactically.  Essentially, you tell your code to *try* this block of code, but if an exception is thrown, you will catch it and run a different block of code.  Similar to an if\else, it will check for one truthy statement and otherwise run your catch.  The idea is error handling, and will save you many time overs in avoiding potentially detrimental outcomes.

There is also a finally statement that will run at the end no matter what.  The process is *try this*, if an exception is true *catch here and run this code*, and then finally *run this as a fail safe*.  You can call as many catches as you want, all in an order, as long as they happen after the try.  The concept there is simply chaining methods; do this, then this, then that.  There is also a *using* statement that allows you to essentially do a try\finally all in one statement.  Similar to a ternary operator, that one block of code will do one thing if valid and run an alternative option otherwise.  The process is fairly simple, and will save you many head aches along your path as a developer.  If you want an example of why you use try\catch to save your butt checkout the [Therac-25 Project](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Therac-25).