# Reading Journal 401-07

## Object Oriented Principles

There are four basic principles to comprehend when working with object oriented programming; inheritance, abstraction, polymorphism, and encapsulation.  First, let's talk about what an object is.  A car, comprised of working parts, or a human body made up of functional organs, these are examples of objects in the real world.  In the programming world, it's not that different.  You have a base class, or a parent class that ultimately cannot be fully defined just by saying, "That's a body!"

That's where inheritance comes in.  You first define your first base class, let's use the body for the rest of this post.  So you have a body, that maybe has a couple of virtual properties that you can set a default value to; ie. number of hands, number of eyes, etc. But what color are the eyes? This is where you define a sub class for people with green eyes and so on.  This is a simple example of inheritance.  The abstract body class, and subsequent abstract eye color, cannot be fully defined without having a child sub class that defines it for you.

And so we move to abstraction.  This is the idea that something exists, or is declared in programmer jargon, but is not defined until a sub class, or child class, defines that property for it.  So the child class above defines our abstract eye color for us!  This is how those two work together; by passing definitions of methods and properties up the line until you finally end up with a fully defined body.  There are many layers with inheritance as well, as there are several working parts with a body, some can be defined by default \(called virtual\) and others that need a child class to define it accordingly.

Now, with so many different layers of inheritance, we have a new concept called polymorphism.  This is the idea that a property can be defined differently by sibling or cousin sub classes.  This gives us the opportunity to define a body with green eyes or with brown eyes!  All of this is accomplished through declaration of a given property or method \(a certain action attached to the class\) and an eventual override that defines the property accordingly.

Finally, we have encapsulation.  This concept is a little trickier.  Typically classes will be public so that other sub classes and name spaces can access them accordingly.  But what if you don't want the outside world to have access to some of your properties?  Encapsulation is how you can hide implementation details from the user or other classes and methods that don't need it.  Private encapsulation defines a property such that sub classes can't use it; meaning that class alone has access to defining it and using it.  Protected, however, allows sub classes to have access to it, but ultimately the user cannot change it.

Imagine the body, and you have a brain sub class, but no other part of the body will be able to change how the brain works, and you definitely don't want the user to have access to your brain!  But maybe a property of the brain is necessary to define how your eyes actually work.  This would be an instance for using protected.  By creating protected inheritance, your program can continue working without any invalid input.