# Reading Journal 401-12

## Relational Databases

A database is a structure for storing relative data within tables that then can relate to the surrounding tables that exist within your database.  These individual tables are all created, connected, and defined within a schema.  The schema is how you define what data each individual table will hold, what columns will be defined within the table, and what relationships that table holds with other tables within the schema.  Once you have your schema structured you can begin the real fun of working with storing, reading, updating, and deleting data according to our program's specifications.

With the idea of a schema being the structure of all of your tables within the database, we can talk about all of the connections.  Firstly, there are primary keys, which allow you to specify a unique *ID* for each row that will get inserted into that table.  This allows you to easily select items from a table based on their primary key.  Next, foreign keys, which allow you to build the desired connections between tables in your schema and database.  By specifying a foreign key within a certain table you can then correlate that foreign key to be relative to a different table's data. Finally, there are composite keys, which allow you to combine two different columns in a table in order to uniquely identify a specific row within that table.  Each one works slightly differently, but serve their own purpose for being able to navigate and understand how your database works within itself.

Now we have an idea of a schema and how you can define relationships within that schema.  Let's talk about different types of relationships.  A 1:1 relationship is, well, just that; one table holds one reference \(or relationship\) to one other table.  A many:many relationship is when a parent row in one table holds a reference to many child rows in another table, and the other way around.  For example; you have an author table and a books table, and then there is a middle table that holds information from both tables that can be used in any of the tables accordingly.  Finally, there's a 1:many OR many:1 relationship.  This type of relationship involves one parent table that has many references to different sub-tables.  These sub-tables all hold information that is relative to itself, but ultimately also important to its parent table.

The reason for these different types of connections and relationships is to keep a nice, tidy, and organized database.  It is unconventional to simply hold a large amount of data that isn't all relative to each other in one giant storage space.  So, we split out all directly relevant data to its own table and create connections that build a hierarchy of relative data.  In the grand scheme, the more directly related the data within a single table is, the easier it will be to find and access.  And so, we have relational databases that allow us to organize our data and correlate it directly to our specific needs and desires within our program.