# Reading Journal 401-02

## Unit Tests and Documentation

Unit testing is a behind the scenes method that allows you to verify the functionality of the code written in your application.  Some of the deeper concepts here, that .NET and other testing frameworks offer include test-driven development, test runners, mocks, and various other unit testing developer tools.  The idea is to verify functionality during development so you know your code is performing exactly as expected.  Yet another dev tool for the sake of trouble shooting and writing effective code.  Using Visual Studio, you can introduce unit tests into your projects that structure them to test a method through some general best practices.  These practices define an effective and effienct way of unit testing and are as follows:

- Arrange, Act, Assert - Use the scientific method to define your test
- Minimal Assertion - Test should only verify one thing
- Avoid test interdependence - Too many tests running simultaneously
- Short, Sweet, and Visible - It should make sense to read at a glance
- Add to Build - If the test fails, the build fails

There's much more to it, but the idea is simple.  Write your code, and then write the code that verifies it works.  It will make your life easier now, and your dev team's lives easier in the long run.

On that note, we can talk about proper etiquette for structuring your README file.  When you are designing an application that you want people to use, they need to understand what your product can offer and how they can use it.  There are best practices for this as well, as well as usable templates to structure your read me scaffolding.  The idea is it should clearly define what the app does at the top; this is a good place to show some visual display of what it does.  Then, if the user scrolls it will define more details of what it takes to use the app and what went into making the app work.  You want it to be succinct but still definitively portray the app's usefulness.  Good documentation gets you more downloads!
