# Reading Journal 401-04

## Classes and Objects

In C#, there are a lot of concepts to talk about in relation to classes and objects; some of which are familiar if you have some background in coding and some, not so much.  As in any language, you have data types; classes and objects are the same. There are value types, reference types, pointers, and instructions.  All of these things require virtual memory, and are stored and deleted according to their place in either the stack or the heap.

The stack is, well, just that, a stack of objects that are being called upon and processed in a specific order.  You must remove the top item from the stack before going back to finish the process that was called before that.  The heap, however, is this virtual box that data exists withing.  When a variable is called and returned, it holds a place in the heap.  This is where pointers come in.  As long as there is a method, class, object, or any other reference to this variable it will continue to exist in the heap.  Else wise, the garbage collector performs its duties by cleaning up your heap and reallocating that space as free memory.  So, where the stack holds many things, but you can only access the top-most item, the heap holds a set of data where all items can be accessed as needed.

Imagine a constructor function.  When called, you create an object based on a reference, to a class or otherwise predetermined reference type.  This is added to the stack.  Then, as per usual, you need to define a couple of variables to reference data in some fashion.  These variables, whether arguments passed into into the constructor or variables defined through expressions, are added to the stack.  Any other processes then run their course; these being the instructions.  Finally, any data that needs to be persistent is added to the heap where space is allocated for that data to be accessed in the future.

At the end of the day, each class, object, and otherwise definable set of data is a set of code that is somehow reliant on the surrounding code in your program.  Inside of your classes you can even have fields; which are a member of their containing class \(inheritence is still valid here\) and can be accessed through dot notation.  All of these concepts of inter-relatability are a great way to look at your program and code through cleaner and efficient eyes; always with the mentality of optimizing your code's performance and hygiene!