# Reading Journal 401-17

## Data Transfer Models

Data transfer models, or DTO's, are a more efficient way to to transfer data between the client side and server side.  In MVC, our models hold the properties and methods that define an entity in our database, and some of these include business logic, or code that causes mutation on the entity.  Direct data transfer from our entity models and the client side can often be clunky and cause the server to need multiple request and response cycles to fulfill all of the promises.

DTO's, however, allow us to create a relationship between the user side and server side that can improve performance by requiring only the DTO to bring a request and return a response once.  The DTO itself is tied into the front end as a class that has strictly getter and setter properties.  Once the request passes into the server, this DTO then also has a direct connection with the actual entity model in the database.  Once that connection is made, the DTO mutates its getters and setters according to the back end model, and then returns to the user with that mutated object data.

This allows us a new level of control over what data the user has access to and how they are allowed to use it.  It also offers a certain level of security that our database has been seriously lacking up to this point.  The selling point of C# and .NET for creation of MVC web apps is the insane amount of control you have over everything that you're doing.  DTO's are just a new layer folded into the sheets of magic happening within the framework and what you can do with it as the magician.