# Reading Journal 08

## More CSS Layout

As we know, the design and layout of your page says a lot to the user. There is a professional practice that page designers like to use called the grid layout system. This system allows you to align columns on your page according to a 960 pixel wide design. When preparing your site to be viewed in the browser, you should demonstrate its relevance within the top 600 pixels so that the user doesn't need to scroll to know if the site is right for them. These grid systems and professional standards will help you conceptualize what you want to initially portray to the viewer. There are also CSS Frameworks provided online that you can implement into your style sheet that give you base CSS to work with that will get you started towards designing a professional site.

As stated above, you can have your page set with a fixed width. This means that if the user makes their window smaller, the page will get cut off depending on the size of the user's winder. You can also implement a liquid, or stretchy, layout that will adjust the properties of your page according to the users viewing window. The key difference between the two is defining your css box model with pixels or percentages. The advantage of a fixed layout is the extreme control it gives the designer over positioning, image sizing, and content appearance compared to the size of the users' window. However, the site is then designed to look best on the designers computer screen, which very rarely will match the user's computer screen specs. Liquid layouts stretch and contract as the user increases and decreases their window size. This is very useful when your site is going to be viewed on many different types of devices, ranging from mobile devices to tablets, even up to large screens; the content will fill the screen it is on accordingly. This however can have detrimental effects on how your site looks as certain elements expand or contract to a point of text becoming too difficult to read, making images imperceivable, and overall leaving your site looking nothing like you designed it to.

You have a plethora of CSS selectors and rules at your disposal, and, where there are professional standards that every designer should follow, it is up to you to decide which practices will best portray your intended effect. Designing a web page is like a piece of art; no two people will do it the same even when there are universal rules to be followed. It is also important to remember that you can implement multiple style sheets into your web page, either by manually linking each on into your HTML, or importing them into your main style sheet using the @ symbol. This is useful for organizing the CSS you implement by having your layout CSS in one place and color scheme in another, or even having a separate sheet dedicated just to tables and forms. At the end of the day, every single aspect of your web page is customizable, and it is the developer's job to find the best method and route for the desired outcome.
