# Reading Journal 02

## HTML Text, CSS Introduction, and Basic JavaScript Instructions

As we have discussed, HTML is used to define the structural layout of your web page. This is accomplished through both structural and semantic markup.  Structural markup is used to define each aspect, or element, that relates to the physical layout of the page; this includes the body, headings, your header and footer, paragraphs, images, and so on.  Semantic markup is what we use to provide meaning for how the browser will read our content.  Different uses of this include bold and italics, creating blockquotes or inline quotes, abbreviations, citations, and many more.  It is important to understand that when writing HTML you are using this semantic markup to describe what the text is, not just to edit appearance.  It is very useful when using a screen ready as it tells the reader how to interpret that part of the content based on its containing element. There are also tools online called visual editors that give you a different tab for editing text itself and editing the html side!

Now that we understand how to use and structure HTML, we will talk about CSS, or cascading style sheets. This is what we use to customize the visual representation of our page using different color schemes and contrast to create a visually pleasing and effective web site. You can write CSS into your HTML page using the style tag in your head or by writing in line attributes into specific elements, but it is best practice to write all of your styling into a css file and link it into the head using a link element and href attribute. You need to understand the box layout in order to effectively customize your page as it defines exactly what you are working with when making changes to any given element. This concept is as follows. Each element is made up of its content which is surrounded by its padding. The padding has a border, and outside of that border is the margin, which is the space between that element and its surrounding elements. The list goes on. We accomplish this using selectors to state what element we are making changes to and declarations to state what changes we want to make. Every declaration consists of a property \(ie. font size, background color, padding size, etc.\) and a value, or what changes you want to see. The reason they are called *cascading* style sheets is because the code is read and run from top to bottom. This is the last rule concept where if two rules apply the the same element, the latter of the two will take precedence. Then there is specificity, for example; if there is a style rule that changes the background color of all paragraph elements, you can use an in line style rule to change the background color of one specific paragraph to be different. You can also give rules precedence by writing "!important" after the value is stated in a rule.

Finally, there is JavaScript, which is used to create interactivity within your web page. Sometimes there will be forms for your user to fill out and then code needs to perform a task to return data output based on the users input. Script is a very specifically laid out set of instructions for the computer to follow, very similar to a recipe or a device manual. You give these instructions by writing statements. Some statements are a single line, like creating a variable or calling a previously written command from earlier in the script, but there can also be declarations within a statement that are separated using curly braces to create a code block. Proper syntax for JS has each new statement starting on a new line and ending with a semicolon. It is also very good practice to use comments throughout your code to either describe what you are intending for the code to accomplish, or to comment out a piece of code that you don't want to be run at that point in time. JavaScript functions very similarly to mathematics wherein it performs expressions to combine values into a single output, and can even be used to run mathematical equations based on user input.

Besides just assigning values to variables and storing that information, you can also compare different statements and create different output based on different circumstances. This is accomplished using comparative operators and if\if else statements. An example of a comparative operator would be a greater than or lesser than sign that will only return a boolean value, or true or false. Beyond that, there are logical operators as well. The double ampersand is one of these that will only return the value *true* if both expressions surrounding the operator are true. Conversely, the **or** comparative operator, or double pipe, would only return the value *false* if both expressions on either side are false. We use these comparative and logical operators to perform if statements. We accomplish this by setting a condition to be met. If the value is returned as true, the code written in the curly braces will be executed. Also, we can use if\else statements to return a response if one condition is met, or *else* we can call different code to return a different response. JavaScript offers us so many different options of how to respond to the user in the browser, but to understand it you need to remember that you are laying out very detailed, line by line instructions for the computer to follow. Flow charts are a great tool to help lay out on paper what it is you want your code to accomplish and how it's going to get there.
