# Reading Journal 09

## Forms and Events

Forms are a way for you to take user input, process it, and return your desired outcome. There are many different input methods to use when creating a form. Something so simple as a web pages log in is considered a form. The different tools used for collecting date from the user include text input, radio and checkout buttons, drop down lists, multiple select boxes, and even file input boxes for uploading files. You can group form input elements into a fieldset element to keep similar data grouped in one section of the form. This is commonly used for longer forms. Each input element has to have certain attributes to define their purpose both to the user and to the script. Type, name, and value are a few of these attributes that tell the user what information they need to input, or they tell the computer what element the script needs to respond to and how to display the form inputs.

CSS comes in very hand with forms on your web page because the default layout of a form will seem choppy and poorly put together. You need your forms to be easy to understand and follow. You use CSS to change the layout of your input elements so that they are easily understood and defined. For example, if you have multiple text inputs in a row, you want your input fields to line up nicely so the user can see easily see what information is being requested, and where they are entering that information. Also, you can use CSS to make your form feel more interactive to the user. The overall goal here is to keep the user intrigued so that they will continue to use your site for its intended purposes.

Different varieties of functions within JavaScript are how you set your function to respond to the user's input. Event listeners are key to responding to the user and how the site works according to what they do. A few examples of an event listener would be scrolling up or down, button clicks, hovering over an element on the page, and many other similar events that happen as your page is being used. A key example of how the page responds to user input using an event listener would be when you input the wrong password the site returns an error telling the user as much. Or when a user fills in the information to create a new profile on your page, the JavaScript will run a constructor function taking the user's information and building their specific profile to be stored in your site's database. They can be difficult to use because there is different vocabulary for older versions of browsers, but that is simple enough to rememdy. When that event listener gets called \(clicking the submit button for creating a profile for example\) the function runs through a simple if else statement that if their browser supports the newer event listener run this function, otherwise, run the function for said older browser.

Either way, forms and event listeners are a huge aspect of web page development and interactivity. There is always information being passed in, stored, and passed back out. Between HTML, CSS, and JavaScript \(as well as many other coding languages\) developers are constantly creating ways for web pages to respond to the user and give them back the information they are requesting. There are many ways to do the same thing within the coding world and it is a matter of not only finding the most efficient way to do them, but also to perform those actions in a way that the user will find attractive.
