# Reading Journal 15

## What Google Learned About Teams

When working on a team to build out a project you need good chemistry, or culture if you will.  This seems like a pretty obvious bit of information, but how do you build that ideal team and team setting?  As we all know, google loves its statistics, and the spent years of research and practice to develop an idea of what aspects build the best team.  Most businesses, historically, have always had their hierarchy of responsibility with your leadership roles driving the maching, and all of the cogs making it work.  This is the waterfall method where responsibility trickles down the chain so that everybody is in charge of their own part of the project.

It makes sense why this would seem efficient and effective as everyone is focused on performing where they excel, but not everyone on the team may feel valued or heard necessarily.  Having the right culture on your team is crucial to overall performance.  How the group interacts with each other both in the work environment and outside says a lot about the effectiveness of the composition.  Instead of one person doing all of the talking and driving, everyone's voice is heard and because of that everyone feels that much more inclined to produce their best.  Also, the collaboration brings together many different skillsets to create a much more effective whole instead of isolating the skills.

The idea that companies are implementing world wide is called agile.  It is an efficient and effective way to group a compatible team that will produce quality results.  This team based method allows for the entire company to be involved in planning the what's, the how's, and the why's of any project they are working on.  The leaders of a group are more responsible for managing the atmosphere to keep the workers involved and interactive with the process.  They say that a happy wife makes a happy life.  Well, in this case, a happy team makes a realistic dream.
