# Reading Journal 401-02-08

## React Props and State

Controlling the state of your application through react is efficient and almost seamless.  However, it is important to remember that the state of an app changes asynchronously, so you need to be careful about using the current state within your code as it will be constantly changing.  That being said, when actively changing the state of your application you must never directly modify the state.  Instead you will use the built in setState\(\) method that will update the state for you.  This method acts like the SaveChangesAsync does on a database when working in the .NET framework.

It is actually really cool how many core principles of programming can be found throughout react.  They utilize single purpose functionality by idealizing independent and dependent class components that are getting passed around the application as needed.  The concept of inheritance is prevalent in the language, as you are able to define behavior that gets passed through to children components when you need to utilize functionality across various components.  Then abstraction and encapsulation are key in defining efficient and effective code.  There are three OOP principles there, and the entire concept of react is based around polymorphism, as the goal is to have an application that updates itself in real time!

All of this is accomplished through the built in props that get defined in your constructor.  This constructor is also where you will bind any of a given class's behavior, but all of that behavior relies on the built in super\(props\) method that each class must have to be able to define its own behavior.  This behavior is the expected outcome, or state change, based on user interaction, timeouts, form input, and a variety of other interactive capabilities of the world wide web.