# Reading Journal 401-02-07

## React Testing and Deployment

React, as with most programming languages and tools, comes with many layers just to implement, but then there's the testing and deployment layers.  As you can imagine...each with its own new set of layers.  But they are relative to the DOM, the state of the app, and the components that create it.  As you would with an API path, you want to ensure you are committing functional and worth while code before pushing and deploying.

Unit testing for Reach can use a couple of different platforms to fulfill your needs, but jest is most common.  There are different methods and levels to run testing on.  You can test high level, or *shallow*, DOM elements and that they are rendering correctly.  These high level tests usually just verify that an error is not thrown on rendering.  Deeper verification testing that checks the specific state of a component requires mounting which gives you the ability to mount into a specific element and verify it is rendering correctly.  Finally, there are snapshots, which is a way for you to check the current *state* of your app against a pre-recorded and expected *snapshot* of the state of any given component or element.

With a snapshot, you must make sure that you keep the expected state up to date with what your expectations of the application are.  Otherwise, you will end up with an outdated snapshot and failing tests.  It is also important to be wary of committing unwanted or broken code \(even if you're not pushing it\) because, if you're using jest, then the tests prior to the most recent commit won't run on their own anymore.  The whole point of react is to have your application responding to requests, responses, and adapting in real time!