# Reading Journal 401-02-09

## Graphs, The Ultimate Data Structure

A graph is a non-linear data structure, meaning that the root node can have multiple edges, or children attached to it and you have extreme flexibility with how it will function what connections are made in the table.  They come in with a variety of possible capabilities.  You can have; directed or undirected; complete, connected or disconnected; and cyclic or acyclic.  

There are two different ways to represent a graph visually.  Either through a 2d binary matrix that has a 0 or 1 representing whether two nodes have a connection or not.  Each row and each column represent the different nodes in the tree  You can also represent a graph through a list of arrays \(very similar to a hash table\) where each node in the list represents a node in the graph and the 2nd level array holds the values for each other node that it has a connection to.

Directed graphs mean that each edge \(or connection\) can only point in one direction; undirected means that the connection can go either way.  A complete tree would be entirely all ones in the matrix, meaning every single node is point at every other node.  Connected simply means that every node can be accessed through a traversal where disconnected means that there might be nodes that don't have a direct edge to the graph.  These stand alone nodes are called islands and are good for data that needs to be isolated.  Finally cyclic means that a node has a path through the graph that will end up pointing back to itself, where acyclic means you can never loop back to yourself as you iterate through the entire graph.

Then there are the two types of traversals, very similar to a binary tree; breadth first and depth first.  To utilize breadth first you will use a queue to cycle through a node and then each of its children, setting their individual status \(likely defined in your node class as a property\) to visited using a boolean.  In doing so you then send your nodes into a list to return out of the function with.  Depth first uses a stack to travel down one child at a time until it reaches a node that doesn't have any more children and then continues to pop off the stack until all children have been traversed to and marked as visited.  This will also ultimately return a list that you pop the node values into.