# Reading Journal 401-02-11

## Hooks in React

Hooks are a relatively new concept in react, but growing in popularity as their use cases become more expansive.  The concept is that they allow you to capture state at an isolated point so that you can use a particular state of the application in ambiguously throughout the app.  There are a few built in hooks within the react framework, most commonly among them are "useState", "useEffect", and "useContext".

However, the really cool aspect of hooks is being able to build your own custom hooks and pass them around your application.  An example a hook's effectiveness is a video game application that checks whether your friends are online or not.  A hook would be used to reach into the state of the app at that point in time \(probably on load when you log in\) and capture the necessary information at a point in time and return the online status of your friend while still being able to render the application as a whole and keep a constant update of the real time state of the app.

The concept is extremely intriguing, but it is not recommended to go into a code base and refactor everything to use hooks instead of the general class or function components that have been the main structure of react.  However, moving forward, if you understand how react works, you can implement hooks into your future feature implementations and probably find some good use for them.  Otherwise, the built in hooks within our classes still get the job done.