# Reading Journal 401-02-04

## User Authorization

User authentication and authorization are very closely related to each other, with a distinct difference.  Authentication is giving the user access to all of the data tied to their account, where authorization is what level of power they have within the program.  This authorization can be defined through roles or policies, each of which have their own separate claims tied to the user's account to define these specifics within their account signature in the program.

In both cases of role or policy authorization, we define which controllers *or* actions within a controller require authorization through the attribute "\[Authorize\]".  For roles, this attribute looks like so, "\[Authorize\(Role = "Admin"\)\]", and for policies, "\[Authorize\(Policies = "RestrictionOfSomeSort"\)\]".  You can also have multiple, optional, roles and policies, separating them with commas with the string of the role or policy declaration.  However, if you require multiple authorizations for a controller or action, you must define a separate attribute for each role or policy that is required.

The .NET framework also gives the programmer a really useful ability of defining their own custom policies.  This is achieved through creating a class that inherits from the *IAuthorization* interface built into the framework.  The class you create must have a defined constructor and field set that verifies your policy.  Finally, you will have to define the business logic in your code that well ensure your custom authorization is met accordingly.  It is necessary to inject this in the start up file as well, but at the end of the day can be extremely handy.  They give you the ability to restrict user access based on custom user data!  A certain age limit is a good example of this, but in the realm of user authentication and authorization, all of this is key to the wide world of development.