# Reading Journal 401-02-05

## Hash Tables

A hash table is a data structure that allows you take a fixed size data storage type, the array, and create a data structure that is unlimited in size, *but* still has the read/write efficiency of O\(1\)!  Now, granted, that is best case scenario, but even so, what makes this possible is by creating an array of linked lists, so that if, by simple fact of chance, your algorithm ends up with two key/value pairs at the same index, they are simply appended to the list.  This isn't ideal, but instead of having to iterate through a million things in a single array, we can just iterate over a few at that particular index.

When multiple values are stored at the same index in the array, this is called a collision.  Collisions are going to be relatively unavoidable, but still fairly rare in a given has table.  Even so, we have gone from iterating through a million things, to accessing a specific index directly and only having to iterate through a few.  A perfect hash is when every index of the array only contains one item in it, and there are algorithms to improve and optimize the efficiency of your hash table, but are a bit beyond scope right now.  For now, how the hashing functions behind the scenes is important.

Every item that is stored in the array is sent through a hashing method that calculates an integer based off of a string and a prime number to calculate the index of the array the item will be stored at using the modulo.  This calculation uses ASCII values, a code to represent characters as numbers and divides by a prime number to calculate unique keys that offer you direct access to any given array in the hash table.  This hashing is what makes hash tables such an optimal data structure, because they offer a way to access indexes of an array directly!