# Reading Journal 401-02-02

## User Authentication

As it is, .NET performs a significant amount of magic behind the scenes in order to generate proper user authentication \(and authorization at that point, but that's for a later date\).  And so, for that reason, there are some requirements within the framework in order to create proper user authentication securely, and, more importantly, we must require these *uses* inside the start up file in order to implement this feature.  A key package is the JSON Web token which allows you to generate a user specific token that can securely transmit data as JSON through your app to verify authorization and return the desired outcome to the user accordingly.

Even so, it is important to understand what is actually happening behind the scenes for you to implement user authentication into any web application.  There are four main aspects to user authentication; identity, verbs, authentication handler, and middleware.  These aspects define the behavior of how the program allows the user to create an account, login\logout of an existing account, and forbids the user from particular data \(if unauthorized\).  But, through a few usings, and a few controller and class implementations on the programmer's end, we can create proper and secure user functionality in our program.

Identity consists of Claims, ClaimsIdentity, and ClaimsPrincipal; meaning, respectively, a single fact about the user \(can have multiple claims\), a single form of user authentication \(again can have multiple\), and actual representation of the user.  The five verbs that create behaviors for you to define are authenticate, challenge, sign in, sign out, and forbid.  These verbs define how and how much a user has access within your application.  The authentication handler is where you personally define what the behaviors of those verbs specifically are.  This is where you can check for verify user exists or not, verify login information, verify admin access, and is the meat behind user authentication and how it behaves within your application.  Middleware is simply a module implementation in your startup that gives you proper control over handling user authentication safely and securely.