# Reading Journal 401-02-03

## JSON Web Tokens

We have created an API, a database, and the capability to speak to our database from the web.  Now, we get to decide who has access to our data, and how, through JSON web tokens, or a JWT.  We create a database to store our user information accordingly, but now we have to give them the ability to register for an account, and be able to login and use persistence to use our server.  The JWT gives each individual user a signature that is unique to them and what defines them as a user and what level of access they have in our server.

A very important aspect of user authentication and authorization is having all of this data within our database, safe and secure, but being able to pass the information around the server and web safely and securely.  JWT's act as a form of encryption that handles a level of security so that the user is able to login and access the data available to them accordingly without ever being exposed to hackers, or even just some clever work around someone might find to access their data directly.

A JWT that is unique to a given user is important for security purposes, but also offers the capability of actually being able to define a user as an admin, moderator, or any other levels of access control a user might have within our server.  This happens, slightly through some magic conjured through the framework you build your server on, but also through some definitive code from the programmer that defines these roles and how they link into a JWT on user creation.  At the end of the day, however, the JWT is a user unique signature that safely and securely defines all of the relative user data and access level through a header, payload, and the *signature*.