# Reading Journal 401-02-01

## Intro to Identity

We have built a database and been able to pass information around up to this point.  But how do we maintain sensitive data that only an individual user has should have access to?  Software and web development is all about the user experience, and we need to respect their privacy too.  So how do we maintain authorization within our database and control what a given user is and is not able to access within our database.  User identity is a pivotal aspect of software development, and crucial to maintaining and building a successful application.

The crucial aspect of defining user identity within your program happens in the StartUp file when you configure services.  This is where the magic happens in defining details of authentication requirements and, more importantly, dependency injection for your service configuration.  What requirements do you need for password syntax, what are your expectations from the user for self-identification, and how will we safely secure that information for them.

Next is model\controller creation and database migration.  This is where we take specific, individual user information and create a storage system for that so that they can access their respected data across multiple platforms.  Much of the functionality of user identity implementation is built into the ASP.NET framework, which, as per usual, performs a level of magic for the programmer behind the scenes.  At the end of the day, there a just a few simple, but necessary, steps that need to be taken to implement user identity into an application, and from their you can choose how to utilize that information for the user in a friendly and secure fashion.